# Abstract 

The ARPA-E funded TERRA REF project generating open access reference datasets for the study of plant sensing, genomics, and phenomics. Sensor data are generated by a field scanner sensing platform that captures color, thermal, hyperspectral, and active flourescence imagery as well as three dimensional structure and associated environmental measurements. These data are provided alongside traditional field methods to support calibration and validation of algorithms used to extract plot level phenotypes from these datasets.

Data were collected at a field site in Maricopa, AZ that hosts a large field scanner with fifteen sensors, many of which are capable of capturing mm scale images and point clouds at daily to weekly intervals.

These data are intended to be reused, and are accessible as a combination of files and databases linked by spatial, temporal, and genomic information. In addition to providing open access data, the entire computational pipeline is open source, and we enable users to access high performance computing environments.

Data Types:

1. Genomic: including at least 400 novel sequences and outputs from GWAS and related analyses. Contains raw and derived sorghum genome sequencing data. Raw data includes DNA sequence files in compressed FASTQ format. Derived data is available for whole-genome resequencing and genotyping-by-sequencing.
2. Sensor: 5 remote thermal, light, and shape sensors scanning a 4000 m2 field at 1 mm2 resolution at hourly to weekly intervals
3. Phenotypes: Included both sensor derived and standard field measurements required to validate and calibrate algorithms that compute plant phenotypes from remote sensing data.
4. Environmental data: Time series of meteorological variables including temperature, relative humidity, precipitation, wind direction and speed, photosynthetically active radiation, and downwelling spectral radiance.

The study has evaluated a sorghum diversity panel, biparental cross populations, and elite lines and hybrids from structured breeding populations as well as a durum wheat diversity panel. This reference dataset can be used to characterize phenotype-to-genotype associations, on a genomic scale, that will enable knowledge-driven breeding and the development of higher-yielding cultivars of sorghum and wheat. The data is also being used to develop new algorithms for machine learning, image analysis, genomics, and optical sensor engineering.
